.TH GIT-SLUG 1 "2026-07-23" "git-tools" "Git Tools Manual"
.SH NAME
git-slug \- turn a description into a short, hyphenated branch-name slug
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git slug
.RI [ WORD " ...]"
[\fB\-n\fR \fICOUNT\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fILENGTH\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-ticket\fR \fIID\fR]
.br
.B git slug
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Turn a free-form description into a short, hyphenated slug suitable for a
branch name. The transformation is mechanical, not clever: lowercase, drop
punctuation, drop filler words, keep the first few significant words, and hard
cap the total length. The goal is a ceiling, not a perfect name \(em a verbose
description cannot produce a verbose slug.
.PP
Print it straight into a checkout:
.PP
.nf
.RS
git switch \-c "$(git slug fix the markdown deep nesting crash)"
.RE
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n " " \fICOUNT\fR
Keep up to
.I COUNT
significant words (stopwords and single-character fragments don't count).
Default 3.
.TP
.BR \-l " " \fILENGTH\fR
Hard-cap the slug at
.I LENGTH
characters, cutting at a hyphen boundary where possible. Default 24. This
always wins over
.BR \-n :
raising the word count does not raise the length cap.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-ticket " " \fIID\fR
Prefix the slug with
.IR "id-" ,
lowercased (e.g. a ticket number).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git slug fix the markdown deep nesting crash
.RS
fix-markdown-deep
.RE
.TP
.B git slug \-t CUR-1234 add per-agent behavior packs
.RS
cur-1234-add-per-agent
.RE
.TP
.B git switch \-c "$(git slug fix flaky retry test)"
Check out a new branch named from the slug directly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-sync (1)
