.TH GIT-SYNC 1 "2026-07-22" "git-tools" "Git Tools Manual"
.SH NAME
git-sync \- rebase branch(es) onto the latest base, then push
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git sync
[\fIn\fR|\fIbranch\fR|\fIurl\fR|\fIrange\fR ...]
[\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-all\fR]
[\fB\-x\fR|\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIids\fR ...]
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-base\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With no target,
.B git sync
rebases the current branch onto the latest base and pushes it:
.B git fetch
\(->
.B git rebase origin/<base>
\(->
.BR "git push \-\-force\-with\-lease" .
Force-with-lease is used because a rebase rewrites history; it still refuses to
clobber remote commits you have not fetched. The command requires a clean tree.
.PP
Targets mirror
.BR "git pr merge" :
one or more of a PR number, a head-branch name, a PR URL, or an
.RI \(dq NNN\-MMM \(dq
range of PR numbers, all mixable. A token is treated as a range only if it is
entirely digits-hyphen-digits, so a branch name like
.I task-42
passes through. A numeric or URL target is resolved to its PR's head branch via
.BR gh (1);
a plain branch name is used as-is with no network, so naming branches directly
works offline. Each named branch is rebased onto the base and pushed.
.PP
On the base branch \(em or when a named target IS the base \(em
.B git sync
acts as a safe pull instead: it fetches and rebases local <base> onto
.IR origin/<base> ,
fast-forwarding when you are only behind. It never pushes the base.
.PP
When a rebase cannot be completed automatically,
.B git sync
reacts exactly like
.BR "git pr merge" :
it aborts the rebase (the branch is left untouched, never half rebased), skips
that branch, and lists it at the end as needing manual resolution. It never
drops you into a conflicted rebase and never fails the whole run. Resolve one by
hand with
.BR "git checkout <branch> && git rebase origin/<base>" .
.PP
A branch named explicitly gets its remote created on first push; the
.B \-\-all
sweep never creates a remote for a purely-local branch. The base defaults to
origin's default branch. There is no
.B \-\-method
option \(em unlike
.BR "git pr merge" ,
sync only ever rebases.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Sweep every local branch in one pass: fast-forward the local base, delete
branches already merged into
.IR origin/<base> ,
and rebase + push the rest. Squash-merged branches look unmerged, so they are
rebased rather than pruned \(em delete those with
.BR "git sweep \-f" .
Cannot be combined with explicit targets.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-exclude " " \fIids\fR ...
Drop the given branch(es)/PR(s) from either an explicit target list or
.BR \-\-all .
Takes the same forms as a target, ranges included; every token after
.B \-x
is an exclude until the next flag.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-base " " \fINAME\fR
Use
.I origin/NAME
as the base instead of origin's default.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print what would happen without changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git sync
Rebase the current branch onto origin's default and push.
.TP
.B git sync 824 feat/login
Sync PR #824's head branch and the local branch
.IR feat/login .
.TP
.B git sync 824-830 -x 827
Sync PRs #824 through #830, except #827.
.TP
.B git sync \-\-all
Prune merged branches and rebase/push all the rest.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-sweep (1),
.BR git-done (1),
.BR git-rebase (1)
