.TH GIT-WSWEEP 1 "2026-07-09" "gitplus" "gitplus Manual"
.SH NAME
git-wsweep \- remove worktrees whose HEAD is already merged into the base branch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git wsweep
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-base\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The worktree analogue of
.BR git-sweep (1).
Where
.B git sweep
deletes merged
.IR branches ,
.B git wsweep
removes merged
.I worktrees
\(em the linked working directories \(em and
.B keeps
the branches. Drop throwaway per-task checkouts and still
.BR "git switch" / "git pr"
the branch later from your main worktree. Removing a worktree never deletes its
branch; run
.BR git-sweep (1)
afterwards if you also want the merged branches gone.
.PP
Like git-sweep, it fetches first and judges "merged" against the base's remote
tip
.RI ( origin/<base> ),
so it works without pulling the base locally and from any worktree.
.PP
Safe by default: a worktree is removed only when its HEAD is already an ancestor
of the base's remote tip (verified with
.BR "git merge-base \-\-is-ancestor" ),
so no unmerged work is lost. Reachability is judged by the worktree's HEAD
commit, so both branch-backed and detached worktrees are handled. The main
worktree (always listed first) and the worktree you are currently in are never
touched.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Remove every worktree except the main one and the current one, regardless of
merge status, with
.BR "git worktree remove \-\-force" .
This also drops worktrees that have uncommitted changes, discarding those
changes \(em the branches themselves survive.
.B "It discards uncommitted work"
\(em preview with
.B \-n
first.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-base " " \fINAME\fR
Base branch to compare against instead of origin's default.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
List what would be removed without changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git wsweep
Remove worktrees whose HEAD is merged into the base (safe); keep the branches.
.TP
.B git wsweep \-f \-n
Preview a force sweep of every worktree except main and current.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-sweep (1),
.BR git-sync (1),
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-done (1),
.BR git-worktree (1)
