.TH GIT-MERGE-PRS 1 "2026-07-21" "git-tools" "Git Tools Manual"
.SH NAME
git-merge-prs \- merge every mergeable open PR, rebasing what needs it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git merge-prs
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
[\fB\-\-mine\fR]
[\fB\-\-method\fR \fIMETHOD\fR]
.br
.B git merge-prs
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.br
.B git merge-prs
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Merge every mergeable open pull request in the current repository, rebasing
branches that need it, skipping anything that needs a human, and listing the
skips.
.PP
Unlike the rest of
.IR git-tools ,
this touches shared remote state \(em it merges PRs on GitHub \(em so it is
.B safe by default:
it only prints a plan and changes nothing until you pass
.BR \-\-yes .
There is no force flag; anything blocked by branch protection (required
reviews or checks) is always left alone.
.PP
PRs are processed in an order chosen to minimize conflicts: for each open PR it
counts how many other open PRs touch at least one of the same changed files,
and processes the least-entangled ones first. This is computed once, up front,
from each PR's changed-file list \(em a plain adjacency count, no LLM involved.
.PP
For each PR, in that order:
.IP \(bu 2
.B CLEAN
or
.BR UNSTABLE :
merged directly.
.IP \(bu 2
.B BEHIND
or
.BR DIRTY :
its branch is rebased onto its base in a scratch
.B git worktree
(never touching your current branch or working tree) and pushed with
.BR "\-\-force\-with\-lease" ,
then merged. If the rebase itself hits a conflict, it is aborted and the PR is
skipped \(em that needs a human.
.IP \(bu 2
.BR BLOCKED :
skipped. Required checks or reviews are never bypassed.
.IP \(bu 2
Draft PRs: skipped.
.PP
Merging one PR can change the status of the ones after it (e.g. a PR that was
clean can become behind). Each PR's status is re-checked right before it is
handled, not just once at the start.
.PP
The merge method defaults to the repository's own default merge method
(from
.BR "gh repo view" ),
overridable with
.BR \-\-method .
Branches are never deleted after merging \(em run
.BR git-sweep (1)
afterward for that.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Actually perform the plan (merge, rebase, skip). Without this, nothing is
changed.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Explicit dry run. This is also the default with no flags at all.
.TP
.B \-\-mine
Only consider PRs authored by you, instead of every open PR in the repo.
.TP
.BR \-\-method " " \fIMETHOD\fR
.IR merge ", " squash ", or " rebase .
Overrides the repository's default merge method.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Requires the GitHub CLI
.RB ( gh ),
authenticated for the repository
.RB ( "gh auth login" ).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git merge-prs
Show the merge order and what would happen to each PR. Changes nothing.
.TP
.B git merge-prs \-\-yes
Actually merge everything mergeable, rebasing and skipping as needed.
.TP
.B git merge-prs \-\-mine \-\-yes
Only merge your own open PRs.
.TP
.B git merge-prs \-\-method squash \-\-yes
Merge everything mergeable, squashing regardless of the repo's default.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-sweep (1),
.BR git-sync (1),
.BR gh (1)
