.TH GIT-PR 1 "2026-07-22" "gitplus" "gitplus Manual"
.SH NAME
git-pr \- list your open pull requests, check one out, or merge one or more
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git pr
[\fB\-nt\fR|\fB\-\-no\-title\fR]
.br
.B git pr
.I NUMBER
.br
.B git pr
.B list
.RI [ ID " ...]"
[\fB\-x\fR|\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIID\fR ...]
.br
.B git pr
.B merge
.RI [ ID " ...]"
[\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-all\fR]
[\fB\-x\fR|\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIID\fR ...]
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-\-method\fR \fIMETHOD\fR]
.br
.B git pr
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With no number,
.B git pr
lists the open pull requests you have authored in the current repository, one
per line as
.IR "<url> -- <title>" .
With
.B \-\-no\-title
it prints just the URLs, one per line, for easy piping. Listing uses
.BR "gh pr list \-\-author @me" .
.PP
Given a
.IR NUMBER ,
.B git pr
checks out that PR's branch, always up to date: it runs
.BR "gh pr checkout" ,
which creates the branch or fast-forwards an existing local branch to the PR's
latest. For merged or closed PRs whose branch has been deleted from
.IR origin ,
it falls back to
.IR refs/pull/<NUMBER>/head ,
which GitHub keeps around.
.PP
Branches are stamped with their PR number
.RB ( "branch.<name>.gitplus-pr" ),
so if the GitHub CLI cannot reach GitHub,
.B git pr <NUMBER>
falls back to switching to the stamped local branch as-is (without updating it),
letting checkout still work offline.
.PP
.B git pr list
.I ID
.RI [ ID " ...]"
shows the title/link for the given PR(s) instead of checking one out \(em any
count, including one, so it is the explicit way to inspect a single PR
without touching your working tree.
.I ID
can be a PR number, head branch name, PR URL, or an
.I NNN-MMM
range (see
.B git pr merge
below for the exact range syntax); naming PRs this way is not scoped to
you, and shows every state (open, closed, merged), not just open.
.PP
An
.I ID
may also be
.B .
or
.BR @ ,
meaning the branch you are currently on \(em the PR for the current branch,
the same idea as
.B gh pr view
with no argument. It works anywhere an ID is accepted:
.B git pr list .
shows the current branch's PR,
.B git pr .
checks it out,
.B git pr merge .
merges it, and
.B \-x .
excludes it. On a detached HEAD there is no current branch, so
.B .
/
.B @
is an error there. Bare
.B git pr
and
.B git pr list
with no ID still list all your open PRs \(em this is an explicit extra token,
not a change to the default.
.RB ( \-x / \-\-exclude
works the same as under
.BR "git pr merge" ; " " \-a / \-\-all
is also accepted here, explicitly meaning "your open PRs" \(em the same thing
as giving no IDs at all, spelled out for symmetry with
.BR "git pr merge \-\-all" .)
As a holdover from before
.B list
was its own subcommand, giving
.B git pr
two or more bare IDs (or a range, or
.BR \-x )
with no subcommand does the same thing.
.PP
Named
.I git pr
rather than
.IR git switch :
git always prefers its built-in
.B switch
over a script, so a custom
.I git-switch
could never run. This is also why merging is the subcommand
.BR "git pr merge" ,
rather than a flag \(em a subcommand needed a name, and a plain
.I MERGE
would collide with the checkout form for anyone with a branch literally named
.IR merge .
.SS "git pr merge: merge one or more pull requests"
.B git pr merge
.I ID
.RI [ ID " ...]"
merges exactly the PR(s) you name \(em each
.I ID
can be a PR number, head branch name, PR URL, or an inclusive
.I NNN-MMM
range of PR numbers (either order), and they can all be mixed. A token only
counts as a range if it is entirely digits and a hyphen, so a branch named
e.g.
.I task-42
is unaffected. Because you are naming PRs explicitly, this considers PRs from
any author, the same as naming a PR to
.BR "gh pr merge" .
Duplicate IDs that resolve to the same PR (e.g. its number and its branch name,
given together) are merged once.
.PP
.BR \-x " (" \-\-exclude )
takes one or more IDs (the same forms, including ranges) to drop from the
targeted set, whether that set came from explicit IDs or from
.BR \-\-all .
Everything after
.B \-x
is treated as an exclusion until the next recognized flag, so it must come
after the IDs (or after
.BR \-\-all )
it applies to. An exclude that does not resolve to an open PR is simply a
no-op, not an error.
.PP
.B git pr merge \-\-all
(or
.BR \-a ,
with no IDs) is the broad-sweep form: it merges every mergeable PR
.B you authored
in the repository. Because this form has no explicit target, it is scoped to
your own PRs only \(em merging someone else's work is not a sweep's call to
make.
.PP
Either way,
.B git pr merge
touches shared remote state (it merges PRs on GitHub), and it acts by default;
pass
.B \-n
or
.B \-\-dry\-run
to preview the plan first without changing anything. There is no force flag;
anything blocked by branch protection (required reviews or checks) is always
left alone.
.PP
The targeted PRs are processed in an order chosen to minimize conflicts: for
each one it counts how many of the other targeted PRs touch at least one of
the same changed files, and processes the least-entangled ones first. This is
computed once, up front, from each PR's changed-file list \(em a plain
adjacency count, no LLM involved.
.PP
For each PR, in that order:
.IP \(bu 2
.B CLEAN
or
.BR UNSTABLE :
merged directly.
.IP \(bu 2
.BR BEHIND :
tried as a direct merge first \(em GitHub's own merge does a real three-way
merge server-side and often succeeds with no local rebase at all. Only on
failure does it fall back to the
.B DIRTY
handling below.
.IP \(bu 2
.BR DIRTY :
its branch is rebased onto its base in a scratch
.B git worktree
(never touching your current branch or working tree) and pushed with
.BR "\-\-force\-with\-lease" ,
then merged. If the rebase itself hits a conflict, it is aborted and the PR is
skipped \(em that needs a human.
.IP \(bu 2
.BR BLOCKED :
skipped. Required checks or reviews are never bypassed.
.IP \(bu 2
Draft PRs, or an ID that cannot be resolved to an open PR: skipped.
.PP
Merging one PR can change the status of the ones after it (e.g. a PR that was
clean can become behind). Each PR's status is re-checked right before it is
handled, not just once at the start. Every merge attempt is retried a few
times with a short pause on failure \(em right after a push, GitHub can take a
moment to recompute mergeability, so a bare first attempt can fail even
though the PR is genuinely mergeable.
.PP
The merge method defaults to the repository's own default merge method
(from
.BR "gh repo view" ),
overridable with
.BR \-\-method .
Branches are never deleted after merging \(em run
.BR git-sweep (1)
afterward for that.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-nt ", " \-\-no\-title
When listing, print bare URLs (one per line) instead of
.IR "<url> -- <title>" .
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
With
.BR "git pr merge" ,
merge every mergeable PR you authored instead of specific ones. With
.B "git pr"
or
.BR "git pr list" ,
an explicit way to say "your open PRs" (the same as giving no IDs). Cannot be
combined with explicit IDs, in either case.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-exclude " " \fIID\fR " ..."
With
.BR "git pr merge" ,
drop the given ID(s) \(em number, branch, URL, or range \(em from the targeted
set. Consumes all following bare arguments until the next flag.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
With
.BR "git pr merge" ,
preview the plan without changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-\-method " " \fIMETHOD\fR
With
.BR "git pr merge" ,
.IR merge ", " squash ", or " rebase ,
overriding the repository's default merge method.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Requires the GitHub CLI
.RB ( gh ),
authenticated for the repository
.RB ( "gh auth login" ). Only the offline checkout fallback (switching to an
already-stamped branch) works without it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git pr
List your open PRs as
.IR "<url> -- <title>" .
.TP
.B git pr \-nt | pbcopy
Copy just the PR links to the clipboard.
.TP
.B git pr 923
Check out PR #923's branch, updated to its latest.
.TP
.B git pr merge 923 task/other-thing
Merge PR #923 and the PR whose head branch is
.IR task/other-thing ,
in whichever order has fewer conflicts.
.TP
.B git pr merge 824\-830 \-x 825 827
Merge PRs #824 through #830, except #825 and #827.
.TP
.B git pr merge \-\-all
Merge everything mergeable of yours, rebasing and skipping as needed.
.TP
.B git pr merge \-\-all \-x 825 827
Same, but skip #825 and #827 even if they are yours and otherwise mergeable.
.TP
.B git pr merge \-\-all \-n
Preview the merge order and what would happen to each of your open PRs.
Changes nothing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-done (1),
.BR git-sync (1),
.BR git-sweep (1),
.BR gh (1)
