.TH GIT-SWEEP 1 "2026-07-07" "gitplus" "gitplus Manual"
.SH NAME
git-sweep \- delete local branches already merged into the base branch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git sweep
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-base\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Delete local branches already merged into the base branch. It fetches first and
compares against the base's remote tip
.RI ( origin/<base> ),
so it works without pulling the base locally and from any branch you are on \(em
a branch merged upstream is swept even if your local base is stale.
.PP
Safe by default: it only deletes a branch whose tip is already an ancestor of
the base's remote tip (verified with
.BR "git merge-base \-\-is-ancestor" ),
so no unmerged work is lost. It deliberately avoids a bare
.BR "git branch \-d" ,
which rechecks mergedness against your current branch and so wrongly refuses
branches merged upstream when the local base is stale. Squash-merged branches
are not caught, because a squash is not an ancestor of the base.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Target every local branch except the base and the current one and force-delete
with
.BR "git branch \-D" .
This also clears never-PR'd and squash-merged leftovers.
.B "It deletes unmerged work"
\(em preview with
.B \-n
first.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-base " " \fINAME\fR
Base branch to compare against instead of origin's default.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
List what would be deleted without changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git sweep
Delete local branches merged into the base (safe).
.TP
.B git sweep \-f \-n
Preview a force sweep of every local branch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-wsweep (1),
.BR git-sync (1),
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-done (1),
.BR git-branch (1)
