.TH GIT-DONE 1 "2026-07-07" "gitplus" "gitplus Manual"
.SH NAME
git-done \- switch back to the base branch and delete the branch you left
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git done
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-base\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The bookend to
.BR git-pr (1).
After you have checked out a pull request's branch and finished reviewing it,
.B git done
returns you to the base branch (origin's default, usually
.IR main ),
fast-forwards it to the latest on
.IR origin ,
and deletes the branch you were on.
.PP
The fast-forward is best effort: it uses
.B git merge \-\-ff\-only
so it never creates a merge commit, and it is skipped with a note if you are
offline or the local base has diverged from
.IR origin .
Refreshing the base first also means the merged-check below is judged against an
up-to-date base.
.PP
Deleting is safe by default:
.B git branch \-d
refuses any branch that is not fully merged, so hopping back to the base cannot
silently drop working code. Note that squash-merged branches look unmerged (a
squash is not an ancestor of the base) and are refused too; use
.B \-\-force
for those.
.PP
On a detached HEAD there is no branch to delete, so
.B git done
just switches back to the base (and fast-forwards it), then reports that there
was nothing to delete.
.PP
If you are already on the base branch, there is likewise nothing to delete, so
.B git done
simply pulls it \(em fetches and fast-forwards the base to
.IR origin .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force-delete the branch with
.BR "git branch \-D" ,
deleting it even when it is not fully merged. Use for squash-merged or otherwise
finished branches that the default
.B \-d
refuses.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-base " " \fINAME\fR
Use
.I NAME
as the base branch instead of origin's default.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print what would happen \(em the switch, fast-forward, and delete \(em without
changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git pr 923 && git done
Check out PR #923, review it, then return to main and delete its branch.
.TP
.B git done \-f
Force-delete the current branch (e.g. after it was squash-merged).
.TP
.B git done \-n
Preview the actions without running them.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits nonzero if not in a git repository, the base is not found, or the branch
is refused by a safe delete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-pr (1),
.BR git-sync (1),
.BR git-sweep (1),
.BR git-branch (1),
.BR git-switch (1)
